<pre>
  BIP: 200
  Title: New Instructional Documentation
  Author: Khalid Salah <ksalah@email.sc.edu>
  Status: Draft
  Type: Informational
  Created: 02/26/18
  Edited: 05/08/18
</pre>

==Abstract==

This BIP(Bitcoin Improvement Proposal) describes the need for new instructional documentation for new and non-technical users using the Bitcoin Core client.

Bitcoin has recently become a household name and with new users joining the platform daily, instructional documentation must be available that is clear, easy, and coherent enough for any non-technical user to manage their way around the Bitcoin Core Client. The current official and available documentation by the Bitcoin Core organization is targeted towards technical users and developers. This type of documentation can be confusing for non-technical users and distray them from using the platform. With the goal of scaling the platform to world wide use, I propose to create new instructional documentation for the Bitcoin Core organization that will attract new non-technical users and guide them enough to be able to use the platform and want to stay around.

==Introduction==

The current Bitcoin Core client, bitcoin [1], has both a command line interface in C++ and a graphical user interface written in C++ and Qt. This client serves as a wallet for users to store, send, and recieve Bitcoin. More advanced and technical users enjoy using the client's command line interface the most and find it the easiest, as is the trend when tech-savvy people have the option of using a command line interface. However, most non-technical users have no experience with a command line interface and will resort to using the desktop graphical user interface.

While downloading the graphical user interface is not that difficult, a user may spend many hours downloading all the blockchain data files. During this the user finds themselves with no introdutory guide and at a front page with four tabs:

*Overview: The user's available, pending, and total balances are shown. A list of recent transactions is also listed to the right.
*Send: This page allows the user to send a specific amount of Bitcoin to a recipient. The recipient or recipient's Bitcoin address is to be entered here.
*Receive: Here the user can generate a payment request specifying the amount and adding a message to the request. This page generates a URI link, a QR code, and shows the user's address which the user can pick from and then give to the person the user is requesting Bitcoin from. 
*Transactions: Lists all of the user's Bitcoin transactions with different options for filtering and searching through these transactions. Also gives the user the option to export a file with the user's transaction data.

Though the user interface clearly lays out the functionality of the wallet, the lack of information presented when first starting and further using the wallet may cause some new and unexperienced users to find themselves very confused. When new and non-technical users are introduced to the idea of cryptocurrencies, a lot of information and concepts are thrown at them. Private keys, public keys, hashing, elliptic curve cryptography, bitcoin addresses, encryption, blockchain, mining, peer to peer networks, wallets. However, when using the wallet a lot of these ideas are hidden from the user and made to run in the background without the user having to worry about these. For example, when starting up the wallet, there is no mention of private or public keys, or even what the users are. With the word around town being that private keys must be known and held secure by their owners, a new user may be reluctant to send any of their Bitcoin to this address. The program assumes the user already knows how everything works and what is going on, and hides some of the details from the user. Even though encapsulating many of the raw technical details of how the program works simplifies the user experience, when transitioning to a new method to storing currency and using an open source project to do so, a new and non-technical user will want to know what exactly all their information is and where/how it is stored otherwise they might not be able to fully trust the program. 

==Plan of Work==
A set of coherent instructions must be shown to a user when starting the application for the first time and those instructions should also be avilable in a more detailed form to the user at any time in a new fifth tab in the program. 

===Instructions===

I propose for a slide-show popup tutorial that is displayed while the user's blockchain data files are being downloaded for the fist time after installation, as well as a new fifth "help" tab that contains more detailed instructions and information in a manual-type format. The general content of the instructions should highlight some of the background processes taking place, where the user's sensitive data is being stored, and how to actually and effectively use the application. 

When starting the application for the first time after installing it, a set of instructions will appear for the user that highlights some of the background processes taking place, where the user's sensitive data is being stored, and how to actually and effectively use the application. The slides will be mostly graphical with a minimal amount of text, mostly giving the users a feel for the application and allowing them to understand how to use it. The first slide will give a brief overview of what Bitcoin is, what is used for, and what the user can do with it. There will also be an option for the user to skip the tutorial if they are already familiar with the application and text that will describe where to access the tutorial slides once again if they would like. The next slide will talk about what the blockchain data files the user is currently downloading are and where they are being stored on his/her computer. A slide will be needed to cover private and public keys and how the user's wallet manages those for him/here and where he/she can access them if needed. Then the next slides will provide a general overview of the available tabs covering what the user can do in each part of the application. Each of these slides will have screenshots of the actual application and annotations over the screenshot indicating the parts of the page, as well as text area at the bottom that will provide more information about the page. The user should get a general idea of what is going on in the application, how everything is secure, and how to use the application. 

The new fifth tab will be the help page. This page will have  manual-style instructions for the user to browse through. This manual will cover the same content as the slides, but with much more detail. There will be a table of contents with the user to browse through with main topics like "Sending Bitcoin" and subtopics like "How do I know if my Bitcoin has sent yet?". The table of contents will have links for each of the topics and subtopics, that will take the user directly to the content they need. This manual will still use screenshots and annotations. This tab will also have a link to have the tutorial slides pop up once again for the user if they would like. The manual can also be stored in PDF form and stored on the website if the Bitcoin Core organization decides they do not want to add another tab to the program.

===Usability Report===

After the new instructional documentation has been created and injected into the program, I will evaluate the effectiveness of the instructions. The program will be given to a group of users and they will test out the different functionality of the program, such as sending and recieving Bitcoin, with no help other than the documentation. A list of tasks will be given to them, such as writing down the initial balance, sending Bitcoin to a specific address, and once again writing the final balance. I can send a very small amount of Bitcoin to each of the testers for them to test with. Once the testers are done, we will analyze how successful they are by seeing if they were able to complete all of the tasks and if their answers were correct. From there adjustments will be made to the documentation based on what we see and also based on the testers' suggestions. 

==Qualifications==

I believe I have the qualifications to effectively create the set of slides for the initial pop-up tutorial and the set manual style set of instructions. Though I am new to this area, I have been taking the time to dive deep into Bitcoin and get a thorough understanding of how everything works on the surface and under the hood. I currently do research at the University of South Carolina on solving some of the scaling issues related to Bitcoin. I also have experience tutoring younger students in computer science related topics and understand what it is like to teach these types of concepts to people who have never seen them before. You cannot talk about some of these topics with non-technical users, the same way technical folk do with one another. After the set of instructions are created, if the Bitcoin Core organization approves for the set of instructions to be injected into the program rather than standalone, I also have experience working on C++/Qt desktop applications, the same technology as the Bitcoin Core client, so I would be able to inject the insructions myself. 

==Sources==
[1] https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin
